
# Java Practice - Day 1

<p> **Topics Covered:**
- Basics of Java (variables, data types)

HOW JAVA WORKS?

STEP1: Writing source code
    class Hello{
        public static void main(String[] args)
        {
            System.out.println("Hello JAVA");
        }
    }

STEP2: COMPILATION
    javac Hello.java

    Java compiler translates code into ByteCode where bytecode is stored in a .class file.

STEP3: CLASS LOADER
    java Hello

    Class loader loads the .classfile into memory.

STEP4: BYTECODE VERIFIER
    No illegal access of memory
    No stackover flow
    Correct datatype Usage

STEP5: JVM(JAVA VIRTUAL MACHINE)
    CPU doesnot understand the Bytecode so JVM converts the Bytecode to machine understandable code before executing it.

STEP6: JIT COMPILER
    Takes frequently used part of the bytecode and converts it them to machine code early so that JVM doesnot have t re-translate everytime.

STEP7: JRE + OS
    Machine code runs in your OS.

- Understanding **JDK, JVM, and JRE**:
  - **JDK (Java Development Kit):** Tools for developing Java programs (JRE+COMPILER+TOOLS)
  - **JVM (Java Virtual Machine):** Simply responsible for executing Java Programs. Loads all bytecode from 
  (.class) file generated by compiling java files. Handles memeory and performs garbage collection automatically. Manages multithreading if program uses it. It is platform independent. 
  - **JRE (Java Runtime Environment):** Provides Java Standard libraries like java.util for interacting with maps, list and sets, java.io for interaticng with all kinds of input and output and java.sql for interacting with databases. (JVM + libraries) 


**Practice:**
- Wrote simple programs to test basic concepts
- Explored compilation and execution using `javac` and `java` commands


</p>